.. _batterychargingexample-battery-charging-example:

Battery Charging Example
========================

Lead acid batteries are very heavy.  But they are cheaper than lithium ion
batteries and this is why they are used in a lot of off-grid electrical systems.

A large lead-acid battery is made up of a set of smaller lead-acid batteries
connected together in series.  These smaller batteries are called cells. Each
cell contains two terminals, and each terminal is connected to a plate that
reaches down into a bath of sulphuric acid (H2SO4).  There is a positive and a
negative terminal.  The positive terminal of a cell is made up of lead dioxide
(PbO2) and the negative terminal is made out of lead (Pb).

A battery is a chemical reaction that wants to happen, but can't until there is
a path for electrons to flow from one material to another.  As a result, there
is a voltage potential expressed across the positive and negative terminals of
the battery.  If an electrical device is connected across these terminals an
electron path is made, the battery can begin its chemical reaction.  As a side
effect the electrical device is powered on.  The flow of current leaves the
positive terminal and enters the negative terminal.  When this happens the
battery is said to discharge.

Charging of a battery occurs when current is forced to flow in the opposite
direction: current leaves the negative terminal and enters the positive
terminal. This causes the chemical reaction to reverse, sequestering the
electrons back into the various materials of the battery.  You can charge a
battery with a battery charger.

If you aren't familiar with the terminology of electricity, imagine a water
tower.  The water is trying to get to the ground, due to gravity,
but it is held in place by the walls of the tower.  This means that there is a
potential for the water to flow, the height of the tower determines how much
energy is stored within it.  The higher the tower, the higher the potential
energy.  Voltage is analogous to height of your water tower.  It is
measured across something.

Now imagine connecting a pipe from the tower to the ground, and letting the
water flow through it, doing some useful work.  This flow is like current in an
electrical system, and the pipe width would limit that flow, so that would be
like an electrical load.

Our battery is like a water tower; if no pipe is connected, current can't flow.
If a pipe is connected, it can, and the energy of the battery reduces just like
the potential energy of our water tower would reduce as it's water leaves it
through a pipe.  If you were to push the current back into the pipe, by
connecting a higher water tower, or buy just driving the current back up the
tube with a pump, you would cause the potential of the water tower to increase.
We would be charging the tower.

A battery is made up of stacking cells in series.  Think of that as a very tall water
tower made up of stacked shorter water towers.  You can increase their potential
energy by stacking them this way.

Now if you were to connect a battery charger to your battery, you
wouldn't connected it across each cell, you would connected it across the two
large battery terminals.  As the current flowed into the battery, it would flow
through each cell.




:ref:`back to examples <examples>`
